---
tags:
  - References
  - Editor
  - Files
---

# File Extensions

On this page, I’ve attempted to collect and briefly describe all resources available in the **Asset Browser** of **REDkit**.
It’s important to note that these are resources accessible for viewing in the **Asset Browser**.
This does not include files that are only accessible through the OS file explorer as raw files in **r4data**.

For example: Wwise projects or raw animation files (`.re`).

## World Files
#### **w2w** [CGameWorld]
- The main world definition file that combines all its elements.

#### **w2l** [CLayer]
- World layer file.

#### **w2ter** [CTerrainTile]
- World terrain tile file.

#### **flur** [CFoliageResource]
- Contains information about generative vegetation (trees, grass, and bushes) for each tile.

#### **navmesh** [CNavmesh] 
- Navigation mesh required for NPC movement. It is automatically generated by a special tool.

#### **grassmask** [CGenericGrassMask]
- A technical file responsible for vegetation placement.

#### **redexp** [CCookedExplorations] 
- ??? Some pre-cooked file. Likely related to navigation.

#### **redwpset** [CWayPointsCollectionsSet] 
- ??? Some pre-cooked file. Likely related to navigation.

#### **w3occlusiondef** [CUmbraScene] 
- Defines general parameters for Umbra occlusion.

#### **w3occlusion** [CUmbraTile] 
- Occlusion files generated for each world tile.

#### **sellmap** [CSwarmCellMap] 
- Apparently part of the navigation system.

## Materials and Textures
#### **w2mg** [CMaterialGraph] 
- A file representing a material graph. This is a visual diagram defining the complex logic of shaders applied to materials.

#### **xbm** [CBitmapTexture]
- 2D textures.

#### **texarray** [CTextureArray]
- Defines an array of 2D textures, used, for example, in material graphs.

#### **w2cube** [CCubeTexture]
- Cube texture (cubemap).

#### **w2mi** [CMaterialInstance] 
- Material instance. This is a ready-made material created based on a material graph (`.w2mg`) and textures.

## Vegetation
#### **srt** [CFoliageResource] 
- Vegetation file imported from SpeedTree. Used for adding trees, bushes, flowers, and grass.

#### **vbrush** [CVegetationBrush] 
- Vegetation brushes, a collection of `.srt` files applied when editing the world using this brush.

#### **w2sf** [CSwitchableFoliageResource] 
- A file that combines multiple vegetation files `.srt` for dynamic vegetation. 
  Used when vegetation needs to change states. Mainly used for collectible resources.

    Example: A bush with flowers that disappear after being collected.

## Quests and Scenes
#### **w2quest** [CQuest]
- The main file (entry point) representing the global quest graph (for the entire game or DLC).

#### **w2phase** [CQuestPhase] 
- Quest phase file used within **w2quest** or other **w2phase**. 
  Essentially, it’s a container for common logic in the quest graph.

#### **w2scene** [CStoryScene] 
- Scene file.

#### **w2dset** [CStorySceneDialogset] 
- Dialogset definition file used in scenes to place actors and cameras.

#### **w2comm** [CCommunity] 
- Community file responsible for NPC spawning. 
  Contains bindings for entities to tags, appearances, schedules, etc.

## Models
#### **w2ent** [CEntityTemplate] 
- Entity file defining parameters such as appearance, interactions, behavior, etc.

#### **w2mesh** [CMesh]
- Mesh file containing a bare 3D model as a polygonal mesh.

#### **w3app** [CEntityExternalAppearance]
- A technical file storing the appearance of an entity.

#### **redcloth** [CApexClothResource]
- Mesh designed for cloth and hair physics.

#### **redapex** [CApexDestructionResource]
- Defines destructible objects.

#### **redfur** [CFurMeshResource] 
- Mesh with additional parameters for fur physics simulation.

## Effects
#### **w2p** [CParticleSystem] 
- Particle file (smoke, fire, magical effects).

## Game Definitions
#### **redgame** [CWitcherGameResource] 
- File required for game initialization. 
  Defines global settings such as the player, starting location, and entry quest file.

#### **w2am** [CAreaMapPinsResource] 
- A single-instance file (in the game folder). 
  Contains information about the default map point, 
  name, and description for each world in the main game
  (in DLC, this is declared in reddlc).

#### **w2qm** [CQuestMapPinsResource] 
- Files defining quest markers on the map.

#### **w2em** [CEntityMapPinsResource]
- Files defining markers for NPCs or other game entities on the map.

#### **reddlc** [CDLCDefinition]
- DLC configuration file.

#### **env** [CEnvironmentDefinition] 
- File for defining weather conditions and environmental effects (fog, rain, lighting).

#### **w2fnt** [CFont]
- File storing imported fonts.

## Animations
#### **w2anims** [CSkeletalAnimationSet] 
- Contains a set of skeletal animations.

#### **w2cutscene** [CCutsceneTemplate]
- File with pre-built animations used as templates in scenes.

#### **w3animev** [CExtAnimEventsFile] 
- A temporary resource used to store and manage events tied to animations, such as sounds.

    The resource itself seems more like legacy that was probably not easy to completely remove.

#### **w2rig** [CSkeleton] 
- Stores data about the animation skeleton rig.

#### **w3dyng** [CDyngResource] 
- File describing the skeleton of an object with bindings to dynamic physical components. 
  Part of the system defining object interactions with environmental physics.
  Imported from raw `.re` animation files.

#### **w3fac** [CMimicFace]
- Facial mimicry file for characters. Imported from raw `.re` animation files.

## Behavior System
#### **w2behtree** [CBehTree] 
- Behavior tree defining NPC actions in response to specific events.

#### **w2beh** [CBehaviorGraph]
- Behavior logic graph, responsible for combining reactions from `.w2behtree` 
  and linking behavior logic to animations.

#### **w2job** [CJobTree] 
- Defines background NPC actions, such as a blacksmith working.

#### **w2steer** [CMoveSteeringBehavior] 
- Graph responsible for movement control logic.

#### **formation** [CFormations]
- Formations used to organize the logic of group NPC movement and formation.

    Example: A column of soldiers.

#### **spawntree** [CSpawnTree] 
- Trees defining the logic for automatic spawning 
  of random NPCs to bring the world to life.
  For example, townsfolk walking the streets.

## Data Storage
#### **csv** [C2dArray] 
- Classic CSV file, using ";" as a delimiter. 
  Used for absolutely different purposes of storing simple data.

#### **redicsv** [CIndexed2dArray]
- Indexed CSV. Differs from the regular one by having an index, 
  an automatically incrementing unique number for each row.

#### **xml**[CXmlResource] 
- Classic XML file. Like CSV, it’s used to store any data, but more complex.

## Miscellaneous
#### **redswf** [CSwfResource] 
- Compiled flash swf interface file.

#### **w2je** [CJournalInitialEntriesResource] 
- Entry point for initializing the game journal.

#### **journal** [CJournalResource] 
- Files containing game journal entries.

#### **w3simplex** [CResourceSimplexTree]
- Simplex tree.

***
Author: leviofanh

*Documentation is maintained by the [REDkit RU](https://discord.gg/kRTEy8KcNa) community members.*

_The translation into English is done using the LLM._
***
